[MUSIC]
The feature is used to construct
value estimates are one of the most
important parts of
a reinforcement learning agent.
Today, we'll discuss one simple but
effective way to do this.
[MUSIC]
By the end of this video, you'll be
able to describe course coding and
describe how it relates
to state aggregation.
Let's talk about a new way to create
features for linear value functions.
Recall that approximate value functions
are parameterized by weight vector W.
To calculate the value of a state
we first compute the features and
construct the feature vector X(S).
Then the value of the state is
approximated by a DOT product between
the weight vector and the feature vector.
Recall that a tabular representation can
be expressed as a binary feature vector.
Each state is associated
with a different feature.
If the agent is in a state then the
feature corresponding to that state is 1.
All other features are 0.
The tabular case is just a special
case of linear function approximation
where the feature vector is an indicator
or one hot encoding of the state.
Of course, this is not feasible when
the size of the state space becomes much
larger than the agent's available memory.
Suppose we want to represent the location
of this fish that's swimming in a pond,
a two-dimensional state.
The fish can be one of
infinitely many locations.
It's impossible to represent all these
locations with a finite lookup table.
Recall that we can use state aggregation
to associate nearby states with
the same feature.
This is like treating all states
within each square as the same state.
In this example, all the groups
have roughly the same shape, but
it's not necessary to use the same shape.
In general we can aggregate states using
any shapes we want as long as those
shapes do not have any gaps or overlap.
State aggregation does not usually
allow the shapes to overlap.
But this restriction is not necessary.
In fact, by allowing overlap,
we obtain a more flexible class of feature
representations called course coding.
Let's look at the example
feature vector for
the fishes current location in the pond.
Remember each index in the feature
vector corresponds to one of the shapes.
The feature corresponding
to the circle is active or
set to 1 if the fish is within that
circle, otherwise the feature set to 0.
The features receptive field
corresponds to the locations that
activate that feature.
When the fish moves to a new location,
it's usually covered by
a different set of circles.
Nearby states will have similar feature
activations, but they may also have
different components active including
different numbers of active features.
In this example, there is always
at least one active feature and
at most three active features.
All the ideas we've discussed so
far are not limited to 2D state spaces.
Course coding can also be applied
to higher dimensional inputs.
[MUSIC]
In this video, we talked about how
the tabular case can be represented with
a binary one hot encoding of the state and
how course coding is a generalization
of state aggregation.
See you next time.